ASSESSMENTS TAILORED TO THE UNIQUE TECHNOLOGICAL 
NEEDS OF THE DIGITAL ASSETS ECOSYSTEMDue DiligenceDecentralized  
The decentralized nature of cryptonative companies poses 
specific challenges that require technologycentered due 
diligence. These challenges extend beyond traditional technology 
and finance, including custody, layer1 protocols, smart 
contracts, dApps, token offerings, DeFi projects, crypto mining 
operations, and crypto exchanges. FTI Technologys services are 
designed to effectively address these unique challenges, offering 
expertise and insights that surpass and complement traditional 
documentbased due diligence assessments. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 2
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc.3
Our Services
FTI Technologys Blockchain  Digital Assets practice leads technologycentered due diligence 
assessments across the industry. We guide investors, transaction teams, cryptonative companies, 
strategic buyers, and traditional organizations looking to incorporate digital assets into their 
operations. We deliver actionable reports focused on digital risk mitigation and industry best 
practices by independently evaluating market position, technical and business operations, 
governance practices, leadership teams, and security postures. Transactional Due Diligence
Transactional due diligence is essential for investors 
moving into web3 business opportunities. Our team of 
experts can evaluate a targets reliability, legitimacy and 
positioning for success. We validate and verify assets 
under custody and review whether the industrys best 
practices have been implemented across technologies 
and program development. Additionally, we evaluate 
company leadership, organizational governance, and third
party vendor programs to identify and mitigate potential 
risks such as regulatory noncompliance, data breaches, 
malicious use, and funds flow. This comprehensive 
assessment helps investors make informed, riskbased 
decisions and protect their investments. Services include
 Operational Diligence
 Technology Assessments
 Regulatory Risk and Compliance Assessments
 Custody of Virtual Assets
 ThirdParty Risk Assessments
 User Evaluations
Regulatory Compliance
Cryptocurrencies and digital assets operate 
internationally and must comply with various regional 
regulations. Organizations must adhere to these laws 
to earn the trust of customers and regulators and avoid 
penalties for noncompliance. Whether organizations 
use digital assets for transparency, security, or efficiency, 
senior leaders must understand the associated risks and 
fulfill compliance obligations. FTI Technologys Blockchain  Digital Assets experts have 
extensive experience managing complex regulatory and 
compliance issues on behalf of senior management and 
outside counsel. We understand that each organization is 
unique, and tailor our services to meet each clients specific 
obligations and risks. This personalized approach ensures 
that we can create, implement and enhance costeffective 
and defensible programs best suited for our clients. Our services cater to a diverse range of organizations, 
including emerging startups, established industry leaders, and legal advisors seeking practical guidance  
for their clients. Services include
 AML and Sanctions Program Audits
 Safety, Soundness, and Prudential Risk Reviews
 Interim Senior Leadership Roles CCO, CRO, AML Officer, 
Sanctions Officer
 Transaction Monitoring and Rules Tuning
 Licensing Application Assistance
 Regulatory Examination Prep
 Product Listing Program Reviews
 AntiFraud Program Advisory
 Compliance Training and Education
 Remediations and Lookbacks
 Compliance Tool Integration and Optimization
 Data Maturity, Modeling, and Validation Assessments
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc.4Proactive Due Diligence for Maturing Crypto Entities
The rapid development of decentralized technology is 
unprecedented. Adjusting strategies and pivoting to 
remain competitive can outpace the implementation of 
new controls and data management techniques. Proactive, 
thorough due diligence can improve a companys roadmap 
with builtin security, regulatory compliance, and best 
practices, reducing operational and financial risk as the 
company expands. Services include
 Layer1 Assessments
 Virtual Asset Custody Assessments
 Governance, Staffing, and Executive Team Assessments
 Regulatory Compliance Program Roadmaps
REPRESENTATIVE ENGAGEMENTS
Layer1 Partnership Evaluation
A major financial services company sought to gain deeper 
insights into a blockchain platform they were considering 
as a potential partner. This financial institution 
understood the critical importance of thorough due 
diligence in the blockchain and digital asset space, 
where operational, legal, and reputational factors can 
significantly impact business relationships. OUR ROLE
FTI Technology was retained to conduct a comprehensive 
business intelligence assessment and due diligence of 
the blockchain platform. The process was thorough, 
aiming to identify and evaluate potential risks and 
vulnerabilities associated with their personnel, operations, 
regulatory compliance, and public perception. The team 
also conducted a preliminary analysis of the platforms 
relationships with other crypto companies that recently 
faced scrutiny, providing context for the clients decision
making process. The due diligence included detailed 
evaluations of the following
 Corporate structure and governance
 Executive backgrounds and responsibilities
 Digital media presence
 Industry relationships and partnerships
 Financial health and token economics
 Technical infrastructure and blockchain performance
 Reputational risks
 Threat landscape
 Regulatory compliance and risk managementOUR IMPACT
 Our multifaceted comprehensive report 
meticulously highlighted strengths and areas 
for concern in critical areas such as corporate 
structure, reputational risk, adverse publicity, 
operational risk, governance and regulatory 
risks. It provided valuable information about 
the strengths and potential areas of concern, 
instilling confidence and  allowing the client to 
assess their partnership opportunity thoroughly. Provided the client with crucial data to make 
an informed decision about the viability of 
the potential partnership. This essential 
data evaluated the longterm potential of a 
partnership, including a comprehensive analysis 
of the platforms financial health covering sources 
of wealth, token distribution and potential 
financial crime exposure. Provided the client with a comprehensive 
technical and operational risk review and 
opportunities. Conducted an indepth evaluation 
of the blockchain performance, including 
analyzing downtime incidents and their impact 
on token prices. Our Services continued
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc.
CASE STUDY 
FORTUNE 500 COMPANY TURNS TO FTI TECHNOLOGYS BLOCKCHAIN  
 DIGITAL ASSETS EXPERTS FOR TECHNICAL AND OPERATIONAL  
DUE DILIGENCE IN POTENTIAL CRYPTO ACQUISITION
SITUATION Considering acquiring a 
cryptocurrency exchange, a Fortune 
500 company asked FTI Technologys 
Blockchain  Digital Assets practice 
to assess the targets technical and 
operational aspects. Acquiring a 
company in the cryptocurrency 
space requires specialized expertise 
and careful consideration across 
technical, operational and market 
factors. Acquiring companies must 
consider if the target companys 
technical infrastructure is resilient 
and meets security, privacy and 
regulatory requirements. Additionally, 
they must evaluate assets under 
custody and other factors determining 
competitive differentiation and market 
performance during cryptospecific 
acquisitions. Without experts who 
understand what to look for and how 
to analyze it, these details can be 
challenging to determine or measure. OUR ROLE
FTI Technology was retained to 
conduct a detailed assessment 
and validation of a cryptocurrency 
exchanges maturity regarding 
digital asset holdings, technical 
infrastructure and business 
operations. The due diligence 
included a close evaluation of the 
following
 Cryptocurrency operations
 Thirdparty vendor risk 
 Assets under custody and 
management
 Targeted business analysis 
 RD roadmap
The team also evaluated additional 
competitors in the market as potential 
partners and targets for the client to 
consider as part of its broader digital 
assets strategy. OUR IMPACT
Delivered a detailed 
report covering the 
target companys current 
strengths and gaps. The 
team also advised the client 
on recommended steps 
necessary to remediate 
gaps, which fully informed 
the clients dealmaking 
decisions and negotiations. Provided client with a 
competitive business 
roadmap and position in 
the market for the various 
options it considered. 5
OUR IMPACT
Uncovered potential risks to 
privacy and data security, 
which were quickly 
remediated prior to closing 
the transaction. Based on 
findings, additional legal 
language was added to the 
agreement to protect the 
acquirer. Successfully assessed 
strength of digital asset 
technology, supporting 
infrastructure and future 
growth plans for the 
most impactful product 
development roadmap and 
continued innovation.
Designed and executed a 
unique strategy to confirm 
ownership of controlled 
assets and AUCassets 
under management. CASE STUDY 
FTI CONSULTING FINANCE AND CRYPTOCURRENCY 
EXPERTS SUPPORT GALAXY DIGITAL S 1.2B 
ACQUISITION OF BITGO
SITUATION When Galaxy Digital sought to 
acquire an institutional digital 
asset custody, trading, and finance 
provider, it turned to FTIs Blockchain 
and Digital Assets practice for an 
indepth audit of digital assets, 
business models and infrastructure 
in support of due diligence activities. In addition to traditional due 
diligence in MA transactions, 
it is particularly challenging but 
imperative to fully understand the 
landscape of the target companys 
cryptocurrency assets framework 
and business model in order to verify 
assets under custody AUC. OUR ROLE
FTI Technologys Blockchain  
Digital Assets experts provided 
the client with a detailed and 
verified technical audit of the target 
companys cryptocurrency AUC, 
technology roadmap, infrastructure, 
business models and privacy and 
security practices. Through a unique understanding 
and approach to acquisition due 
diligence, the team was able to 
quickly deliver technical, data 
security and operational assessments 
while developing an expedited path 
to financial due diligence based 
on a deep understanding of how 
cryptocurrency businesses monetize. With indepth knowledge of wallets, 
behavior of cryptocurrency exchanges 
and the operational hurdles 
unique to the world of blockchain, 
FTI Technologys experts were able to 
design and execute a unique strategy 
to confirm ownership and prove 
validity of AUC. In addition to supporting the client 
with verifying cryptocurrency assets 
and infrastructure, the technical 
assessment included a close look at 
data privacy and security including 
risk areas that could impact the 
transaction. Through a detailed risk 
evaluation, the team helped the client 
identify and mitigate all potential 
risks in the acquisition and provided 
guidance for remedial actions 
throughout the due diligence process. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 6
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc.77
Our Experts
STEVE M CNEW
Senior Managing Director and Global Lead of the  
Blockchain  Digital Assets Practice
1 936 2329994
steve.mcnewfticonsulting.com
Steven S. McNew is a leading expert in blockchain and 
cryptocurrency forensicsanalytics, enterprise blockchain 
implementation, and digital forensics. He has led 
numerous investigations into claims involving fraud or 
misuse of cryptocurrencies, stolen digital assets, and led 
asset tracing investigations into cases involving Ponzi 
schemes and RICO claims in class action lawsuits. He has 
led bankruptcy, MA, and strategy assignments in the 
cryptocurrency and blockchain sector. Mr. McNew has 
offered expert testimony 19 times in the US and Australia, 
has authored numerous expert reports and is frequently 
published for his thought leadership in industry media. MIKE CARTER 
Senior Managing Director
1 917 5570765
mike.carterfticonsulting.com
Mike Carter is an expert in digital assets, regulatory 
compliance, and financial crime investigations. Mr. 
Carter has extensive experience providing advisory and 
investigative services for financial crime matters globally, 
including leading compliance and risk engagements 
for Fortune 500 companies, assisting global financial 
institutions in investigations of highrisk customers and 
potentially suspicious transactions, and developing 
compliance roadmaps for TradFi and digital asset firms to 
address risk and regulatory compliance concerns. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc.8
PRESTON FISCHER
Managing Director
1 214 2132458
preston.fischerfticonsulting.com
Preston Fischer is a digital risk and 
innovation expert with a focus on 
blockchain and digital assets. Mr. 
Fischer brings more than 20 years of 
experience in emerging technology, 
innovation and digital risk 
management across consultancies, 
technology organizations, and 
public affairs. His expertise helps 
clients address risk while driving 
advancement and includes innovative 
considerations into web3 and 
metaverse adoption. JESSICA DE BRIGNAC
Managing Director
1 646 4531244
jessica.debrignacfticonsulting.com
Jessica de Brignac is a digital risk 
management and intelligence expert 
providing blockchain and digital 
asset advisory services to global 
clients. She specializes in helping 
businesses navigate blockchain and 
digital asset innovation, risk, and 
growth opportunities. She supports 
innovation in emerging technologies, 
including metaverse adoption 
She brings more than 15 years of 
experience solving datarelated 
business challenges, with expertise in 
legal and regulatory matters. DAVID BRILL
Managing Director
1 917 9233800
david.brill fticonsulting.com
David Brill was pivotal in shaping 
significant milestones within the 
digital assets industry. As general 
counsel for several fintech companies, 
he leveraged his legal expertise and 
background in financial services 
and technology to tackle intricate 
regulatory, legal, and compliance 
challenges for global organizations and 
startups in the digital assets space. Mr. Brill brings more than two 
decades of experience in law, 
strategy, operations, compliance, and 
enterprise risk management, honed 
across large financial institutions, 
international organizations, and 
startups. His guidance has been 
instrumental in navigating complex 
fintech and compliance matters, 
intricate litigation, regulatory hurdles, 
and mergers and acquisitions. Our Experts continued
About FTI Technology, a Segment of FTI Consulting
FTI Technology solves datarelated business challenges, with expertise in legal and regulatory matters. As data grows in size and complexity, we help organizations better govern, secure, find, analyze and 
rapidly make sense of information. Innovative technology, expert services and tenacious problem
solving provide our global clients with defensible and repeatable solutions. Organizations rely on us to 
root out fraud, maintain regulatory compliance, reduce legal and IT costs, protect sensitive materials, 
quickly find facts and harness organizational data to create business value. For more information, 
please visit www.ftitechnology.com. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 9
FTI Consulting  is an independent global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organizations manage change, 
mitigate risk and resolve disputes financial, legal, operational, political  regulatory, reputational and transactional. FTI Consulting professionals, located in all major business centers throughout the world, work closely with clients to 
anticipate, illuminate and overcome complex business challenges and opportunities. 2024 FTI Consulting, Inc. All rights reserved. fticonsulting.comDAVID BRILL
Managing Director
1 917 9233800
david.brill fticonsulting.comJESSICA DE BRIGNAC
Managing Director
1 646 4531244
jessica.debrignacfticonsulting.comPRESTON FISCHER
Managing Director
1 214 2132458
preston.fischerfticonsulting.comMIKE CARTER
Senior Managing Director
1 305 7144611
mike.carterfticonsulting.comSTEVEN S. M CNEW
Senior Managing Director
1 936 2329994
steve.mcnewfticonsulting.com