1EASY GUIDE TO             
FATF STANDARDS 
AND METHODOLOGY    
Virtual Assets What, When, How?
2Virtual asset service providers  
are a new sector in most 
jurisdictions and face significant 
money laundering and terrorist 
financing risks. The Financial 
Action Task Force FATF has 
taken action to respond to the 
very real risk that legitimate 
services offered by virtual asset 
service providers will be abused 
by criminals and terrorists to 
launder money and finance 
terrorist acts. Virtual assets are going to be 
regulated, like other sectors at 
risk of money laundering and 
terrorist financing. Now is the 
time to discuss implementation 
and move forward. 3FATF FOCUS ON VIRTUAL ASSETS
Blockchain, bitcoin, crypto assets, virtual currencies  ... a whole new vocabulary describing innovative 
technology to swiftly transfer value around the world. The fastevolving blockchain and distributed ledger 
technologies have the potential to radically change the financial landscape. But, their speed, global reach 
and above all  anonymity  also attract those who want to escape authorities?  scrutiny. Blockchain 
originated just over 10 years ago. Since then, virtual assets have become widely available and have started 
to be used as payment products. However, without established regulation and oversight, the sector is often 
still referred to as the ?wild west? of the finance industry. How can criminals misuse virtual assets? In 2017 the ? Wannacry? ransomware attack held thousands of computer systems hostage until the 
victims paid hackers a ransom in bitcoin. The cost of the attack went far beyond the ransom 
payments, it resulted in an estimated USD 8 billion in damages to hospitals, banks and businesses 
across the world. Other ransomware attacks have happened since and appear to be on the rise. 4FATF focus on virtual assets
Virtual assets have many potential benefits. They could make payments easier, faster, and cheaper; and provide 
alternative methods for those without access to regular financial products. But without proper regulation, they 
risk becoming a virtual safe haven for the financial transactions of criminals and terrorists. The FATF has been 
closely monitoring the developments in the cryptosphere and in recent years has seen the first countries start to 
regulate the virtual asset sector, while others have prohibited virtual assets altogether. However, as yet, the 
majority of countries have not taken any action. These gaps in the global regulatory system have created 
significant loopholes for criminals and terrorists to abuse. With support from the G20, the FATF has issued global, binding standards to prevent the misuse of virtual assets 
for money laundering and terrorist financing. The term ? virtual asset?  refers to any digital representation of value 
that can be digitally traded, transferred or used for payment. It does not include the digital representation of fiat 
currencies. The FATF standards ensure that virtual assets are treated fairly, applying the same safeguards as the 
financial sector. FATF? s rules apply when virtual assets are exchanged for fiat currency, but also when they are 
transferred from one virtual asset to another. Taking effective action 
Countries need to implement the FATF? measures, and soon. This will ensure transparency of virtual asset 
transactions and keep funds with links to crime and terrorism out of the cryptosphere. Today, many virtual asset 
service providers are perceived as ? risky business?  and denied access to bank accounts and other regular financial 
services. While implementing the FATF? s requirements will be challenging for the sector, it will ultimately increase 
trust in blockchain technology as the backbone behind a robust and viable means to transfer value. The FATF has 
revised its assessment methodology, which sets out how it will determine whether countries have successfully 
implemented the FATF Recommendations and are regulating the virtual asset service provider sector. Preparing for the future  
The technology behind virtual assets is fastmoving. Future developments should not create loopholes that 
terrorists and criminals can exploit. The FATF will evaluate next steps in June 2020. FATF Methodology for assessing compliance with the FATF Recommendations and the 
effectiveness of AMLCFT systems
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsmutualevaluationsdocuments
fatfissuesnewmechanismtostrengthenmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcompliance.htmlThe FATF Standards FATF Recommendations 
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfrecommendationsdocumentsfatfrecommendations.html
FATF Guidance for a RiskBased Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset Service 
Providers
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfrecommendationsdocumentsguidancerbavirtualassets.html
Money laundering risks from ?stablecoins? and other emerging assets
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfgeneraldocumentsstatementvirtualassetsglobalstablecoins.html
5How do the FATF Standards apply? Virtual asset service providers need to
Implement the same preventive 
measures as financial institutions, 
including customer due diligence, record 
keeping and reporting of suspicious 
transactions 
Obtain, hold and securely transmit 
originator and beneficiary information 
when making transfersCountries need to 
Understand the money laundering and 
terrorist financing risks the sector faces 
License or register virtual asset service 
providers 
Supervise the sector, in the same way it 
supervises other financial institutionsThe effective global implementation of these standards by all countries will ensure 
virtual asset technologies and businesses can continue to grow and innovate in a 
responsible way, and it will create a level playing field. It will prevent criminals or 
terrorists seeking out and exploiting jurisdictions with weak or no supervision. 6Where does a VASP need a license 
or registration? Country where the company is incorporated ? always  mandatory 
Location of management ? sometimes  optional for countries 
Location of servers  backoffice functions ? sometimes  optional for countries 
Countries where you have significant numbers of customers ? sometimes  optional for 
countries
 
Note VASPs may need licenses or registrations from multiple national authorities if they do business in 
several countries
7Building a partnership 
Regulating virtual assets service providers is challenging for everyone. National authorities need 
to develop skills to understand the technology involved, while the virtual asset service providers 
have to learn about the financial rules that now apply to their sector. It is up to the sector itself to develop the technology to meet the FATF? requirements, 
particularly when it comes to securely collecting and transmitting originator and beneficiary 
information. To help governments and the industry itself, the FATF has developed a riskbased approach 
guidance with significant input from the sector itself. The guidance explains how to understand 
the risks, how to license and register the sector, and what the sectors needs to do to know who 
their customers are, store this information securely and detect and report suspicious 
transactions. The FATF has engaged intensively with the virtual asset service provider sector to build a 
partnership between governments and the sector and better understand the issues and risks 
involved, including by hosting annual fintechregtech forums since 2017. Through its Contact Group, the FATF continues to further explain the FATF? requirements to the 
industry and to monitor developments and understand how the industry is meeting the various 
challenges. FATF Guidance for a RiskBased Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset 
Service Providers 
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfrecommendationsdocumentsguidancerbavirtualassets.html
8For More Information
www.fatfgafi.org
Contactfatfgafi.orgFATF Publications and Useful Links
Have you subscribed to the FATF 
Business Bulletin? If not, sign up now via the FATF 
public website  The FATF Standards FATF Recommendations 
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfrecommendationsdocumentsfatfrecommendations.html
FATF Guidance for a RiskBased Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset Service Providers
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfrecommendationsdocumentsguidancerbavirtualassets.html
FATF Methodology for assessing compliance with the FATF Recommendations and the effectiveness of 
AMLCFT systems
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsmutualevaluationsdocuments
fatfissuesnewmechanismtostrengthenmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcompliance.html
Money laundering risks from ?stablecoins? and other emerging assets
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsfatfgeneraldocumentsstatementvirtualassetsglobalstablecoins.html
FATF dedicated webpage on Virtual Assets
www.fatfgafi.orgpublicationsvirtualassetsdocumentsvirtualassets.html?hf10b0sdescfatf_releasedateIn light of the rapid development of the range of financial functions served by virtual assets, the FATF will review 
countries?  and providers? implementation of the requirements applicable to virtual assets and virtual asset service 
providers in June 2020. This will include monitoring the implementation of the new requirements at national level, monitoring virtual asset 
service providers? progress in developing technology solutions for securely submitting originatorbeneficiary information 
between virtual asset service providers when conducting virtual asset transfers and assessing whether further updates 
are necessary to ensure the FATF Standards stay relevant and effective. The FATF has also set up a contact group that will engage industry and monitor industryled efforts to enhance 
compliance with the FATF Standards and better safeguard the international financial system from abuse. Looking ahead...